Well hello there, Mark Wilkins checking in.
Welcome to AWS Security Operations: Securing Core AWS Infrastructure Services,
how many times can I say AWS in this class?
Probably quite a lot.
Welcome aboard.
We're looking at managing access control and this is the second of
four classes dealing with security operations on AWS.
And we're going to have a lot of fun learning about
AWS and putting this into practice.
Why have a course focused on AWS security?
See there's that word again.
Well, your design has to be secure, secure from the user standpoint,
data,
you could look at security from the aspect of security of your
business because your application could scale properly,
so security can be sliced a number of different ways,
so this class focuses on AWS security and if you're going to take the new Amazon
certification or any of the other certifications on Amazon,
you'll get some great background to help you with those certs.
Security is still 25/7 in the cloud,
we usually react to security and we try out best to be proactive and
put systems in place and protections in place,
but then there's a new hack, a new attack,
and we have to be reactive.
So we don't really ever solve this problem, we try to get better at it.
And so, again, the focus of this class, security in the AWS cloud.
Now Kevin Mitnick, who is Kevin Mitnick?
Well he was one of those original bad hackers,
he hacked into IBM and Nokia,
and he is now running a security company and he says,
hey companies spend millions of dollars in firewalls,
secure access devices, kind of wasting money because the weakest link is us,
people.
The people that use, administrate, operate the computer systems.
Yea it's true, we always want to get around security,
we want potentially a shorter password or cached credentials,
aren't they great?
Well not really.
So we have to adhere to Kevin's advice with this class.
And this course will help you with all things in AWS infrastructure security.
Does it cover everything in Amazon security?
Well, how long do you want to be here?
This is a product that keeps on giving.
It is constantly changing, but the core pieces,
yeah we can get a great handle on those.
So a working knowledge of AWS services is a bonus, but not essential.
I'm starting at the ground floor, but if you have some background great.
Now security operations is the course that's broken into four different courses,
part 1 we've already done, it's up on Pluralsight,
Designing for Acceptable Risk and Compliance.
We're doing part 2 right now, Securing the Core AWS Infrastructure Services,
we're talking VPC, infrastructure and identity management,
securing our instances.
Then we'll take a look in the course after this,
Securing Access to Object Storage, S3, the edge locations.
And finally, we'll look at Securing the Managed Services.
But for now, we're focusing on part 2, Securing Core AWS Infrastructure Services.
So what are our topics for this module?
Well we start off with identity and access management.
And then we go a bit further into IAM users and groups and then we take
a look at roles and controlling access to resources.
Then we'll look at access keys, how do they play a part in Amazon security?
We'll then take a look at creating some IAM policies.
We'll look at the concept of delegation and federation for
corporations that want to use Amazon resources,
but want to use say Active Directory on-prem
integrated into Active Directory in Amazon.
We'll then take a look at best practices when planning access control.
So those are our topics. Let's get going.